# An-Ontology-based-Segmentation-Approach-for-Activity-Recognition-in-Python
### Data pre-processing and modeling using Ontology, Activity Recognition and Segmentation of Sensor data in Ambient Assisted Living System

Ambient Assisted Living (AAL) systems are being developed to support the growing aging population. An AAL system is built so that it can assist the persons living in a Smart Home (SH) environment so that they can carry out their Activities of Daily Living (ADL). A smart home that is equipped with different types of sensors in different parts of the home assists inhabitants of that home in living with comfort and safety. Individuals need to be able to complete Activities of Daily Living (ADLs) such as eating, grooming, cooking, and sleeping, to lead an independent life. Thus, automating the recognition and tracking of these ADLs is an important step toward monitoring the functional health of a person who is residing in a smart home environment. The ambient sensors located at different corners of the house continuously produce data when they get triggered.

Based on sensor data, Activity Recognition is the problem of predicting the movement of a person mainly in indoor conditions. Human Activity Recognition (AR) is one of the most prominent research topics for an ambient-assisted living (AAL) in smart spaces. Activity Recognition is required to detect the tasks performed by the individual so that assistance can be provided to them. In the ambient assistant living systems, to perform human activity recognition, data segmentation plays a very significant role. By using static/dynamic window approaches, substantial efforts have been made in data segmentation. It is required to appropriately partition the continuously growing sensor data stream for running the activity recognition algorithms in real-time. To recognize activity from the sensor data, we need to segment it. In simpler terms, segmentation of data means slicing the sequence of sensor data based on a segmentation approach. The data within a window needs to be tested for the recognition of the specific activity.

Ontology is a representation of domain knowledge. In our approach, we are creating an ontology for defining a set of representational primitives with which to model a domain of knowledge. But the challenge lies in creating a standardized version of ontology for getting global recognition and acceptance along with smooth interoperability. Keeping this in mind, we used Semantic Sensor Network (SSN) ontology for describing the sensors and their observation, the observed properties, the actuators, the studied feature of interest, and the procedures which are involved. 

